A comprehensive guide on using authorization in soroban contracts. (#664)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/smart-contracts/guides/conventions/comprehensive-authentication.mdx

   - [`authorize_as_current_contract`](#authorize_as_current_contract)
3. [Step 1: Define the Custom Account Contract](#step-1-define-the-custom-account-contract)
   - [Define Data Structures and Initialization](#define-data-structures-and-initialization)
4. [Step 2: Define the Deposit and Withdraw Functions](#step-2-define-the-deposit-and-withdraw-functions)
5. [Step 3: Implement Custom Authentication Logic](#step-3-implement-custom-authentication-logic)
   - [Define Authorization Policy](#define-authorization-policy)
6. [Step 4: Testing the Custom Account Contract](#step-4-testing-the-custom-account-contract)
   - [Example Test: Single Authorization](#example-test-single-authorization)
   - [Test Multi-Signature Authorization](#test-multi-signature-authorization)
7. [Step 6: Deep Contract Authentication](#step-6-deep-contract-authentication)
   - [Define Deep Authentication Contracts](#define-deep-authentication-contracts)
   - [Test Deep Contract Authentication](#test-deep-contract-authentication)
8. [Security Considerations](#security-considerations)
9. [Conclusion](#conclusion)
10. [Further Reading](#further-reading)

### Introduction

> In this guide we will try to visit all aspects of Soroban auth. To do this we will build a pretty simple custom multi-signature account contract which allows users to make a deposit of some token, and specify the accounts that have to sign in order to make a withdrawal from the account. For fun we will also add a custom authorization policy which let's the invoker withdrawal more coins, based on how many users or contracts signed the transaction. We will also attempt to demonstrate calling the multisig contract while authorizing it as another contract. So for example, a user could deposit an amount, and another countract might be in the authorized list of addresses that can be a valid signer to make a withdrawal.

Author: fixed any uses of withdrawal as a verb. fixed spelling issues.

#### Authorization Workflow

> 1. **Invocation Structure**: In Soroban, every transaction can be viewed as a tree of invocations, which typically are calls to contract functions. Each invocation can generate sub-invocations, creating a layered structure of calls.

Author: haha well it sounded good when i wrote it.

3. **Requiring Authorization**: At any point during an invocation, a contract may call the `require_auth(Address)` function provided by the host. This function is designed to ensure that the invoking entity has the necessary authorization to execute the intended action.

4. **Dynamic Authorization**: Soroban allows contracts to not only require but also provide authentication and authorization services dynamically. This flexibility supports complex architectures where contracts can act based on real-time decisions regarding permissions.

#### Overview of Soroban Authentication

Soroban smart contracts allow for complex authorization mechanisms. This guide will help you implement a custom account contract with multi-signature support and demonstrate how to use various authentication functions like `require_auth`, `require_auth_for_args`, and `authorize_as_current_contract`. You can also implement custom authentication logic by implementing `__check_auth()` as a function on your contract.

#### `require_auth`

> The `require_auth` function is used to ensure that a particular address has authorized the current contract invocation. It is a straightforward way to enforce that an action being taken within a contract has the explicit permission of the address in question.

Author: I've added a section about this concern, and improved overall vigilance on security and audits.

        balance.min_signers = min_signers;
        balance.base_withdrawal_limit = base_withdrawal_limit;

        // Store the updated balance.
        env.storage().instance().set(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()), &balance);

        Ok(balance_id)
    }

    pub fn withdraw(env: Env, balance_id: BytesN<32>, to: Address, amount: i128) -> Result<BalanceInfo, AccError> {
        // Require the current contract to authorize the withdrawal.
        env.current_contract_address().require_auth();

        // Retrieve balance information.
        let mut balance: BalanceInfo = env.storage().instance().get(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()))
            .ok_or(AccError::InsufficientFunds)?;

        // Check if the balance is sufficient.
        if amount > balance.amount {
            return Err(AccError::InsufficientFunds);
        }

        // Update the balance.
        balance.amount -= amount;
        env.storage().instance().set(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()), &balance);

        // Transfer the token to the `to` address.
        TokenClient::new(&env, &balance.token).transfer(&env.current_contract_address(), &to, &amount);

        Ok(balance)
    }
}
```

> ### Step 3: Implement Custom Authentication Logic

Author: Yeah that's absolutely a good point, in fact it took me a decent amount of effort to make this 'simple' example I think i did have a section about security considerations, but maybe i should highlight that more.  One of the biggest reason i implemented custom auth was because i wanted users to be able to become familiar with all different capabilities of auth built into the sdk.. originally i considered making an example that allowed you to auth a transaction using a ECDSA signature or something like that, but found the guide quickly became too long.

> ### Step 3: Implement Custom Authentication Logic

Author: I added a couple disclaimers on this topic, and on security in general.

3. **Requiring Authorization**: At any point during an invocation, a contract may call the `require_auth(Address)` function provided by the host. This function is designed to ensure that the invoking entity has the necessary authorization to execute the intended action.

4. **Dynamic Authorization**: Soroban allows contracts to not only require but also provide authentication and authorization services dynamically. This flexibility supports complex architectures where contracts can act based on real-time decisions regarding permissions.

#### Overview of Soroban Authentication

Soroban smart contracts allow for complex authorization mechanisms. This guide will help you implement a custom account contract with multi-signature support and demonstrate how to use various authentication functions like `require_auth`, `require_auth_for_args`, and `authorize_as_current_contract`. You can also implement custom authentication logic by implementing `__check_auth()` as a function on your contract.

#### `require_auth`

Certainly! Here's a revised version of the `require_auth` section with a discussion on the implications of omitting this call:

> ---

Reviewer: Lollll this sounds like GPT

> ---

Author: > Lollll this sounds like GPT

Lol it seems it was. Will fix.

#### `require_auth`

The `require_auth` function is used to ensure that a particular address has authorized the current contract invocation. This function is for enforcing that an action within a contract has the explicit permission of the specified address. By calling `require_auth`, you can guarantee that the caller has the necessary authorization to execute the intended operation.

**Example Usage:**

```rust
impl IncrementContract {
    pub fn increment(env: Env, user: Address, value: u32) -> u32 {
        user.require_auth(); // Ensure the user has authorized this call
        value + 1 // Proceed with increment logic
    }
}
```

**Implications of Omitting `require_auth`:**

> If you omit the `require_auth` call in your contract functions, the function can be executed without any authorization from the specified address. This means that anyone could potentially invoke these functions, leading to unauthorized actions. For example, without `require_auth`, an unauthorized user could increment a value or transfer tokens without the owner's consent. Therefore, it is important to include `require_auth` wherever authorization is needed to prevent unauthorized access and maintain the security of your smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you omit the `require_auth` call in your contract functions, the function can be executed without any authorization from the specified address. This means that anyone could potentially invoke these functions, leading to unauthorized actions. For example, without `require_auth`, an unauthorized user could increment a value or transfer tokens without the owner's consent. Therefore, it is important to include `require_auth` wherever authorization is needed to prevent unauthorized access and maintain the security of your smart contract.
```

> For example, without `require_auth`, an unauthorized user could increment a value or transfer tokens without the owner's consent.

This isn't true for the SAC because it does `require_auth` internally, so maybe clarify that?

Author: > I second this. It's important to understand the footprint side of auth and sub invocations. I would actually like to see a whole section probably prior to the contract side of this doc on how the footprint plays into this. Both for root invocations as well as sub invocations like in the case of SACs or other cross contract calls which implement auth.

I thought I had covered the footprint in the part called authorization vector but ill revisit it. Thanks.

However, there are scenarios where unauthenticated calls might be appropriate, such as when providing public or utility functions that do not modify state or functions to get contract data easily. In these cases, carefully consider the security implications and that such functions cannot be exploited.

In summary, while `require_auth` is not mandatory for all contract calls, its usage is necessary for any operation that requires explicit authorization to safeguard against unauthorized actions, for example transferring a balance of some asset, or changing some other data related to the user.

#### `require_auth_for_args`

This function extends `require_auth` by allowing the contract to specify which arguments need to be authorized, thus providing finer control over what exactly is being authorized.

**Example Usage:**

```rust
user.require_auth_for_args((&user, value).into_val(&env)); // Authorize with specific arguments
```

#### `authorize_as_current_contract`

> Used for authorizing actions in a contract that will be called later in the execution stack. This is particularly useful for complex interactions involving multiple contracts.

Reviewer: I need a little more clarity for myself honestly since I've never seen/used this variant :sweat_smile: do you mean to say that you are authorizing a call in advance that a subcontract will make that would otherwise be unauthorized?

Author: > I need a little more clarity for myself honestly since I've never seen/used this variant 😅 do you mean to say that you are authorizing a call in advance that a subcontract will make that would otherwise be unauthorized?

Say I contract c needs contract a auth to complete some function, but contract b will be called by contract a and contract b will call c on a behalf. In this case you'd want to authorize as current contract a during the call to b for its sub invocation to c. I struggled to find a irl example to use.

Reviewer: Ah yeah, that (sorta) makes sense! Maybe a Mermaid diagram would be helpful here? This is incomplete, but something like:

```mermaid
flowchart 

C -- needs auth from --> A
B -- calls --> A -- calls --> C
```
?

**Example Scenario:**

```rust
env.authorize_as_current_contract(vec![
    InvokerContractAuthEntry::Contract(SubContractInvocation {
        context: ContractContext {
            contract: contract_c_address,
            fn_name: Symbol::new(&env, "authorized_fn_c"),
            args: (env.current_contract_address(),).into_val(&env),
        },
        sub_invocations: vec![&env],
    })
]);
```

### Step 1: Define the Custom Account Contract

> Start by defining the custom account contract with necessary functions and data structures. This contract will handle initialization with a list of signers, depositing tokens, and withdrawing tokens.

Reviewer: This is just an example, right?

Reviewer: If yes lets put it into its own `##` section

Author: It's step one of maybe 5 or 6 that I did `###` on. I'll make sure they're in correct order and correct headings. Will be fixing everything today.

> If yes lets put it into its own `##` section

        // Store the updated balance.
        env.storage().instance().set(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()), &balance);

        Ok(balance_id)
    }

    pub fn withdraw(env: Env, balance_id: BytesN<32>, to: Address, amount: i128) -> Result<BalanceInfo, AccError> {
        // Require the current contract to authorize the withdrawal.
        env.current_contract_address().require_auth();

        // Retrieve balance information.
        let mut balance: BalanceInfo = env.storage().instance().get(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()))
            .ok_or(AccError::InsufficientFunds)?;

        // Check if the balance is sufficient.
        if amount > balance.amount {
            return Err(AccError::InsufficientFunds);
        }

        // Update the balance.
        balance.amount -= amount;
        env.storage().instance().set(&DataKey::Balance(balance_id.clone()), &balance);

        // Transfer the token to the `to` address.
        TokenClient::new(&env, &balance.token).transfer(&env.current_contract_address(), &to, &amount);

        Ok(balance)
    }
}
```

### Step 3: Implement Custom Authentication Logic

> **A Caveat** - Let's be clear, custom auth is highly complicated and VERY easy to mess up. It requires security audits before use in production, and should only be used if you can't accomplish your goals in another way. The goal of this guide is to give you some experience with each feature of sorobans authentication framework, and that is why we cover it here.

Reviewer: suggestion: let's be even bolder here
```suggestion
**Warning**: Let's be clear, custom auth is highly complicated and VERY easy to mess up. It requires security audits before use in production, and should only be used if you can't accomplish your goals in another way. The goal of this guide is to give you some experience with each feature of sorobans authentication framework, and that is why we cover it here.
```

Author: > We have callout boxes for this as well. I'd use one of those for this section.

Can you show me an example of what you mean

Reviewer: I think he's referring to the `<Alert>` box described [in the README here](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs?tab=readme-ov-file#alert)

Reviewer: Aha, found one! There's a caution one on the [_Smart Wallets_ page](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/smart-contracts/smart-wallets) and it's styled like this:

```txt
:::caution

Your content goes here

:::
```

.No need for `<Alert>` at all.
